NGSCGuide.md, before:

## SuiteCRM for regular Users

First log-in by pages: 

1. User information
2. Time zone/Formatting preferences
3. Useful links

#### Personal Email

1. Go to your profile by hovering your mouse over your name on the top right and clicking 'Profile'
2. Scroll to the bottom and enter your email address. Leave the 'Email Client' dropdown at 'SuiteCRM Email Client' and the 'Editor' dropdown at 'Mozaik'. 
3. Click Settings and go to the 'Mail Accounts' tab.
4. Click 'Add' under 'Mail Accounts' and complete the required fields.
  1. 'Mail Account Name' is your preference
  2. 'User Name' is your email address i.e. johndoe@example.com
  3. Password is your password to that account
  4. 'Mail Server Address' for NGSC is mail.ngsc.org
  5. Check 'Use SSL' and set 'Mail Server Port' to 993
  6. Enter 'Trash Folder' as 'TRASH'
  7. Keep other fields as the default value. 

#### Creating Charts

1. The module for creating charts in SuiteCRM is called 'Reports' located under the 'Activities' menu tab.

2. Select 'Clients' in the Report Module dropdown. Options under 'Module tree' on the left should appear. Aside from 'Clients', these modules are those with a 'Relationship' with 'Clients'. 

3. Click on 'Clients' under the 'Module tree' for its fields to appear in the panel below 'Module tree'. 

4. Select the field you would like to make a chart of. You will want to add two of the same field. 

5. In the largest panel, you will see three tabs: 'Fields', 'Conditions', and 'Charts'

6. Fields tab
	1. After selecting a Field on the lower left panel, a Field item should appear here with columns that describe settings for the chart.
	2. The Display Link column will indicate whether or not you would like the chart to have a link to the Module. Sometimes selecting this will not allow axis to be grouped.
	3. The Label column will be the name that fields axis.
	4. The Function column will select how the field will be measured. For most charts, you will set a field Function to Count and another item of that field to None. That is why in Step 4, I recommended two of the same fields- they have different Functions.
	5. The Sort column will indicate how you order that axis.
	6. The Group column will allow you to group by this field. Usually for --none Function.
	7. The Total column will select how the data will be summarized outside of the chart.

#### Using the Search Function near the top right 

After typing a search query for a Client, Company, or etc, click User Basic Search

Commit message:

Added a fix to broken phpmyAdmin database in NGSCGuide documentation

NGSCGuide.md, after:

## SuiteCRM for regular Users

First log-in by pages: 

1. User information
2. Time zone/Formatting preferences
3. Useful links

#### Personal Email

1. Go to your profile by hovering your mouse over your name on the top right and clicking 'Profile'
2. Scroll to the bottom and enter your email address. Leave the 'Email Client' dropdown at 'SuiteCRM Email Client' and the 'Editor' dropdown at 'Mozaik'. 
3. Click Settings and go to the 'Mail Accounts' tab.
4. Click 'Add' under 'Mail Accounts' and complete the required fields.
  1. 'Mail Account Name' is your preference
  2. 'User Name' is your email address i.e. johndoe@example.com
  3. Password is your password to that account
  4. 'Mail Server Address' for NGSC is mail.ngsc.org
  5. Check 'Use SSL' and set 'Mail Server Port' to 993
  6. Enter 'Trash Folder' as 'TRASH'
  7. Keep other fields as the default value. 

#### Creating Charts

1. The module for creating charts in SuiteCRM is called 'Reports' located under the 'Activities' menu tab.

2. Select 'Clients' in the Report Module dropdown. Options under 'Module tree' on the left should appear. Aside from 'Clients', these modules are those with a 'Relationship' with 'Clients'. 

3. Click on 'Clients' under the 'Module tree' for its fields to appear in the panel below 'Module tree'. 

4. Select the field you would like to make a chart of. You will want to add two of the same field. 

5. In the largest panel, you will see three tabs: 'Fields', 'Conditions', and 'Charts'

6. Fields tab
	1. After selecting a Field on the lower left panel, a Field item should appear here with columns that describe settings for the chart.
	2. The Display Link column will indicate whether or not you would like the chart to have a link to the Module. Sometimes selecting this will not allow axis to be grouped.
	3. The Label column will be the name that fields axis.
	4. The Function column will select how the field will be measured. For most charts, you will set a field Function to Count and another item of that field to None. That is why in Step 4, I recommended two of the same fields- they have different Functions.
	5. The Sort column will indicate how you order that axis.
	6. The Group column will allow you to group by this field. Usually for --none Function.
	7. The Total column will select how the data will be summarized outside of the chart.

#### Using the Search Function near the top right 

After typing a search query for a Client, Company, or etc, click User Basic Search

#### [Table] doesn't exist in engine error fix

####  Table 'phpmyadmin.pma user config' doesn't exist in engine fix

1. Run MySQL server
2. Delete phpmyadmin database/folder/directory in xampp/mysql/data
3. Run the command line by pressing the windows logo + R and typing 'cmd'. Hit enter
4. In the command line enter command: cd xampp/phpmyAdmin/sql
5. In the command line enter command: 'mysql <create_tables.sql -u root'
6. Restart MySQL.
