NGSCMSAccessMigration.md, before:

## Instructions for MS Access to MySQL migration

1. Download MySQL ODBC Connector at https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/connector/odbc/ . The version to be downloaded depends on the Access application used. At NGS, the MS Access applications are 32-bit.

2. Run your MySQL server.

3. Open ODBCad32 located in C:\Windows\SysWOW64

4. Under the User DSN tab, click "Add...", select "MySQL ODBC x.x Unicode Driver", and click "Finish". In this new window, enter the following fields:
	Data Source Name: anything
	TCP/IP Server: 127.0.0.1	Port: 3306
	User: Root
	Database: test

5. Open MS Access and select the table that you want to migrate. Click the "External Data" tab and towards the right, click "More", then "ODBC Databse", and lastly "OK".

6. In this new "Select Data Source" window, go to the "Machine Data Source" tab. Select the Data Source Name you created in step 4.

## SQL Command for table insert post-migration
```
INSERT INTO contacts(
    id,
    first_name,
    last_name,
    photo,
    phone_home,
    phone_mobile,
    phone_fax,
    primary_address_street,
    primary_address_city,
    primary_address_state,
    primary_address_postalcode,
    birthdate
)
SELECT
    ClientID,
    Firstname,
    Lastname,
    Photo,
    Homephone,
    Mobilephone,
    Fax,
    Address,
    City,
    `State/Prov`,
    Zipcode,
    DoB
FROM
    exampledb;

INSERT INTO contacts_cstm(
    `id_c`,
    `ethnicity_c`,
    `gender_c`,
    `workauth_c`,
    `status_c`,
    `marrital_c`,
    `referraltype_c`,
    `education_c`,
    `housing_c`,
    `middle_name_c`,
    `age_c`,
    `alcohol_addiction_c`,
    `disabled_c`,
    `disability_c`,
    `mentallyill_c`,
    `mental_illness_c`,
    `veteran_c`,
    `failedback_c`,
    `bgrnd_desc_c`,
    `college_attendance_c`,
    `degree_c`,
    `current_education_c`,
    `educationplan_c`,
    `resumeav_c`,
    `children_c`,
    `public_assistance_c`,
    `homeless_c`,
    `vispdat_screen_c`,
    `shelter_name_c`,
    `lifecoach_c`,
    `other_assist_c`,
    `ssn_c`,
    `referral_c`,
    `emergencyfirst_name_c`,
    `emergencylast_name_c`,
    `emergency_phone_c`,
    `emergency_email_c`,
    `emergency_relationship_c`,
    `monthly_income_c`,
    `presently_employed_c`,
    `felon_c`,
    `incarcerated_c`,
    `drugs_problem_c`,
    `drug_addict_c`,
    `ssndoc_c`,
    `dd214_c`,
    `driver_license_c`,
    `driver_license_image_c`,
    `passport_c`,
    `passport_image_c`,
    `birth_certificate_c`,
    `work_visa_c`
)
SELECT
    ClientID,
    Ethnicity,
    Gender,
    Workauthor,
    `Clientstatus`,
    `Maritialstat`,
    `Referredby`,
    `EDlevel`,
    `Housing`,
    `Middlename`,
    `Age`,
    `Alcoholaddict`,
    `Disabled`,
    `Disability`,
    `Mentallyill`,
    `Mentalillness`,
    `Veteran`,
    `Failedbackchk`,
    `backchkfail`,
    `Attendingcollege`,
    `EDdegree`,
    `EDcurrent`,
    `EDplan`,
    `Resumeavail`,
    `Children`,
    `Publicassist`,
    `Homeless`,
    `VISPDATscreen`,
    `Sheltername`,
    `Lifecoach`,
    `Otherassist`,
    `SSN`,
    `Referral`,
    `Emergconfirst`,
    `Emergconast`,
    `EmergconPhone`,
    `EmergconEmail`,
    `Emergconrelat`,
    `Income_Mo`,
    `PresEmploy`,
    `Felon`,
    `Incarceration`,
    `Drugsprob`,
    `Drugaddict`,
    `SSNdoc`,
    `DD214`,
    `Driverlicense`,
    `Driverlicensedoc`,
    `Passport`,
    `Passportdoc`,
    `Birthcertificate`,
    `Workvisa`
FROM
    exampledb;
```

## VBA Script to export MS-Access image attachments. Execute with Immediate window with desired directory(/upload) as parameter
```
Public Function SaveAttachmentsTest2(strPath As String, Optional strPattern As String = "*.*") As Long
Dim dbs As DAO.Database
Dim rst As DAO.Recordset
Dim rsA As DAO.Recordset2
Dim rsB As String
Dim fld As DAO.Field2
Dim OrdID As DAO.Field2
Dim strFullPath As String

'Get the database, recordset, and attachment field
Set dbs = CurrentDb
Set rst = dbs.OpenRecordset("PersonalData")
Set fld = rst("Photo")
Set OrdID = rst("ClientID")

'Navigate through the table
Do While Not rst.EOF

'Get the recordset for the Attachments field
Set rsA = fld.Value
rsB = OrdID.Value

'Save all attachments in the field
Do While Not rsA.EOF
If rsA("FileName") Like strPattern Then
'To Export the data, use the line below
strFullPath = strPath & "" & rsB & "_photo"

'Make sure the file does not exist and save
If Dir(strFullPath) = "" Then
rsA("FileData").SaveToFile strFullPath
End If

'Increment the number of files saved
SaveAttachmentsTest = SaveAttachmentsTest + 1
End If

'Next attachment
rsA.MoveNext
Loop
rsA.Close

'Next record
rst.MoveNext
Loop

rst.Close
dbs.Close

Set fld = Nothing
Set rsA = Nothing
Set rst = Nothing
Set dbs = Nothing


End Function


```

Commit message:

Added an Intake Date field to Clients and updated the Migration documentation to import Emails

NGSCMSAccessMigration.md, after:

## Instructions for MS Access to MySQL migration

1. Download MySQL ODBC Connector at https://dev.mysql.com/downloads/connector/odbc/ . The version to be downloaded depends on the Access application used. At NGSC, the MS Access applications are 32-bit.

2. Run your MySQL server.

3. Open ODBCad32 located in C:\Windows\SysWOW64

4. Under the User DSN tab, click "Add...", select "MySQL ODBC x.x Unicode Driver", and click "Finish". In this new window, enter the following fields:
	Data Source Name: anything
	TCP/IP Server: 127.0.0.1	Port: 3306
	User: Root
	Database: test

5. Open MS Access and select the table that you want to migrate. Click the "External Data" tab and towards the right, click "More", then "ODBC Databse", and lastly "OK".

6. In this new "Select Data Source" window, go to the "Machine Data Source" tab. Select the Data Source Name you created in step 4.

## SQL Command for table insert post-migration
```
INSERT INTO contacts(
    id,
    first_name,
    last_name,
    photo,
    phone_home,
    phone_mobile,
    phone_fax,
    primary_address_street,
    primary_address_city,
    primary_address_state,
    primary_address_postalcode,
    birthdate,

)
SELECT
    ClientID,
    Firstname,
    Lastname,
    Photo,
    Homephone,
    Mobilephone,
    Fax,
    Address,
    City,
    `State/Prov`,
    Zipcode,
    DoB,

FROM
    exampledb;

INSERT INTO contacts_cstm(
    `id_c`,
    `ethnicity_c`,
    `gender_c`,
    `workauth_c`,
    `status_c`,
    `marrital_c`,
    `referraltype_c`,
    `education_c`,
    `housing_c`,
    `middle_name_c`,
    `age_c`,
    `alcohol_addiction_c`,
    `disabled_c`,
    `disability_c`,
    `mentallyill_c`,
    `mental_illness_c`,
    `veteran_c`,
    `failedback_c`,
    `bgrnd_desc_c`,
    `college_attendance_c`,
    `degree_c`,
    `current_education_c`,
    `educationplan_c`,
    `resumeav_c`,
    `children_c`,
    `public_assistance_c`,
    `homeless_c`,
    `vispdat_screen_c`,
    `shelter_name_c`,
    `lifecoach_c`,
    `other_assist_c`,
    `ssn_c`,
    `referral_c`,
    `emergencyfirst_name_c`,
    `emergencylast_name_c`,
    `emergency_phone_c`,
    `emergency_email_c`,
    `emergency_relationship_c`,
    `monthly_income_c`,
    `presently_employed_c`,
    `felon_c`,
    `incarcerated_c`,
    `drugs_problem_c`,
    `drug_addict_c`,
    `ssndoc_c`,
    `dd214_c`,
    `driver_license_c`,
    `driver_license_image_c`,
    `passport_c`,
    `passport_image_c`,
    `birth_certificate_c`,
    `work_visa_c`
)
SELECT
    ClientID,
    Ethnicity,
    Gender,
    Workauthor,
    `Clientstatus`,
    `Maritialstat`,
    `Referredby`,
    `EDlevel`,
    `Housing`,
    `Middlename`,
    `Age`,
    `Alcoholaddict`,
    `Disabled`,
    `Disability`,
    `Mentallyill`,
    `Mentalillness`,
    `Veteran`,
    `Failedbackchk`,
    `backchkfail`,
    `Attendingcollege`,
    `EDdegree`,
    `EDcurrent`,
    `EDplan`,
    `Resumeavail`,
    `Children`,
    `Publicassist`,
    `Homeless`,
    `VISPDATscreen`,
    `Sheltername`,
    `Lifecoach`,
    `Otherassist`,
    `SSN`,
    `Referral`,
    `Emergconfirst`,
    `Emergconast`,
    `EmergconPhone`,
    `EmergconEmail`,
    `Emergconrelat`,
    `Income_Mo`,
    `PresEmploy`,
    `Felon`,
    `Incarceration`,
    `Drugsprob`,
    `Drugaddict`,
    `SSNdoc`,
    `DD214`,
    `Driverlicense`,
    `Driverlicensedoc`,
    `Passport`,
    `Passportdoc`,
    `Birthcertificate`,
    `Workvisa`
FROM
    exampledb;
```
## Importing Emails to SuiteCRM

1. Export from Access as CSV. 

2. Edit CSV to match example import CSV's name and email column

3. Client->Import Clients on sidebar->Select CSV

## VBA Script to export MS-Access image attachments. Execute with Immediate window with desired directory(/upload) as parameter
```
Public Function SaveAttachmentsTest2(strPath As String, Optional strPattern As String = "*.*") As Long
Dim dbs As DAO.Database
Dim rst As DAO.Recordset
Dim rsA As DAO.Recordset2
Dim rsB As String
Dim fld As DAO.Field2
Dim OrdID As DAO.Field2
Dim strFullPath As String

'Get the database, recordset, and attachment field
Set dbs = CurrentDb
Set rst = dbs.OpenRecordset("PersonalData")
Set fld = rst("Photo")
Set OrdID = rst("ClientID")

'Navigate through the table
Do While Not rst.EOF

'Get the recordset for the Attachments field
Set rsA = fld.Value
rsB = OrdID.Value

'Save all attachments in the field
Do While Not rsA.EOF
If rsA("FileName") Like strPattern Then
'To Export the data, use the line below
strFullPath = strPath & "" & rsB & "_photo"

'Make sure the file does not exist and save
If Dir(strFullPath) = "" Then
rsA("FileData").SaveToFile strFullPath
End If

'Increment the number of files saved
SaveAttachmentsTest = SaveAttachmentsTest + 1
End If

'Next attachment
rsA.MoveNext
Loop
rsA.Close

'Next record
rst.MoveNext
Loop

rst.Close
dbs.Close

Set fld = Nothing
Set rsA = Nothing
Set rst = Nothing
Set dbs = Nothing


End Function


```
